Escalade Wilson is one of the boldest
and baddest artists who ever lived his
visions of mayhem deviancy dismemberment
and sheer levels of obscenity are
unsurpassed I don't know if I got not
really did either of you though I don't
know I mean he was that far a good thing
I'm doing my version of it I don't know
how to give it out I said you know does
it okay I don't think you think they
knew understand like a reconfiguration
of Wilson was one of the founders of zap
comix which changed the medium forever
comics this raw and explicit had never
seen print before after the underground
movement ended he found new audiences in
punk scenes foreign publications and
girlie magazines he also worked for many
art collectors over the years who
commissioned him to do hundreds of pen
and ink drawings watercolors and
paintings you know my job period you
know
publish your Perry's deadlines your red
lines you know shit-or-get-off-the-pot
you know if you're a joint if you'll be
off the real gutter quit fucking drawing
if it separates makes me eight bah blah
blah blah blah so there's an angle were
children devil on the other you know
what's condemning ones condoning you
know dirty bleep which ways do you
listen to
that's enough to make it gets raining
right his work is people with perverts
of every stripe starting with his
favorite character the checkered demon
other regulars like Captain piss gums
Ruby the Dyke and star I'd Stella arose
from somewhere in his inner landscape of
course you're all the characters you
draw I mean you know I hear their voice
is my job you know so the characters are
different facets of course for my
personality or accumulated
opinion of who I am or whatever you know
that's based upon real life to people
you know I know that that sir traits has
lend themselves to cartoon characters
you know action
get your own girl hey Wilson made his
way onto MTV in 1984 appearing in an art
break spot on the cable network
naturally it was taped at his favorite
watering hole dicks bar top it off nice
moves Oh suddenly a pirate girl appears
the chequered demon also checks her out
and competes with his creator for her
charms
unfortunately Wilson who wrote some of
the best pirate dialogue ever was cast
with a monosyllabic pirate wench let's
drop anchor here Wow Oh in the end the
demon gets the girl zap comix lasted
longer than most of the counterculture
every few years a new issue came out
which was always cause for celebrations
when they released that 12 at the
psychedelic solution in New York City in
1989 a slew of people showed up to the
opening and the aren't sold out before
the show even closed I think the stuff
will become more important I think
history will sort it out and give it
this proper place you know primarily by
the fact of how it's into a fuel sauce
and part work other artists I think
that's the crux nothing that will make a
historical or pivotal buy the influence
its had you know or the innovations it's
created or you know or the inspirations
cause or whether so history marches plot
the long you know here writings envelope
you know of a Jesus here before will
puts out and spend out of control if we
live
long enough to feel but all this shit
means you know behind the bluster Wilson
himself was actually sensitive and shy
totally only his close friends knew his
true nature pirates in the heartland the
first volume in the mythology of
escalade Wilson reveals the man behind
the public persona and follows his
career as he develops into one of the
20th century's most influential artists
it contains a lifelong retrospective of
both his published and private work as
well as many personal mementos of his
long and eventful life volumes two and
three of the mythology of escalade
Wilson will be published by
Fantagraphics books in 2015 and 2016